It turns out what I've been talking about
this whole time about how some of these
are confusing,
this one's pretty confusing.
So don't feel bad if you weren't able
to just run through these quick,
it is probably my fault.
But let's go through it, and hopefully
we'll learn something, and improve these.
So right off the bat, the first one
we wanna call to uppercase and title.
The result of this,
getPost returns us a task of a post.
So if I wanna get the title of the post,
I can map over it.
Get to the post, and newpost.title.
And I can choose to then map again
on the title to uppercase it,
uppercase, Or
I could decide to do it in one go.
And that follows from that property
we were talking about before.
Two maps, a map followed by a map can
be the composition of both functions.
Composition inside one map, which is cool.
So we can use that to decide whether to
break this apart for a more of a separate.
I don't care about the post.
If I decided I never wanted to post after
that, and I wanted to contain it, so
that it's gone from my memory, and
I can focus on just the title.
This might be the way to go.
Or if I just wanna deal with it,
one guy could do that, no big deal.
It may be a performance boost, maybe
if you're doing this 100 million times.
>> It's failing me.
I don't know if it's-
>> I had the same problem.
I had to refresh my code pen
before it actually ran it.
And I was like, why is going on?
I'm starting to sweat.
I was like, everybody's failing,
and it's my fault.
[LAUGH] all right, so
then we go to comments for posts.
And this is the one that
I think is a little bit
not as defined as it should have been.
The idea is that you wanna pass the post,
right?
So we map over it, we get a post, and
we wanna pass that into getComments.
So we'll get the comments with that post.
Then we wanna assign the comments
returned to the post, so
that we have a t.comments,
t being the post with a terrible name.
All right, so [LAUGH] with a functional
programmer name, very, very important.
So we go to this, use two spaces for
tabs, and it's killing me.
But if we weren't both in scope, remember,
we can just nest it in enclosure.
We'll just map over that to get comments.
Now that we have both posts and comments,
you can kind of see this nesting.
They've got two variables
in play right now.
And then we'll go ahead and say, well,
it's just object,
assign comments to the post.
However, we've done a task,
so we have a task of post.
Then we get comments.
Again, that's a task of comments.
So then at the end of all this map,
we end up with a task of a task
of this post with comments.
So what we'll do is just change
this map to a chain work.
And that flattens this down and
gives us our answer.
And is not happy.
So this could be made
a little bit nicer to read.
You could try to, I don't know,
this is fine, fine, fine, fine.
But the point is that if we
need multiple things, and
this is where async await, if you
wanted to make it work with any monad,
it might come in handy if
you have multiple variables.
So elsewhere, nesting kind of tells
you how deep your context is.
So pick pick your poison.
All right, so there's that one.
Let's go to last one, nice and easy.
Wrap location href in a task
to make it pure, mathematical.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We'll say task, and I, again, I think
I messed up a little bit here in that.
Some of the other things I've done
actually defined task up here.
But this one brings it in from folktale,
and folktale,
which I haven't done all
the way up until now, is new.
So there's me setting you up for failure,
and I apologize for that [LAUGH].
But it looks like this can never fail,
right?
If I try to get location href,
it's gonna be there.
So I'm just gonna ignore
the edge right here.
But, if it were,
maybe we could do it in a try catch,
and we'll talk about that
situation in a minute.
We'll circle back on that one.
But here we are.
We just wrapped it in test,
cool, nothing too fancy there.
We could also maybe wrap location in
a task, and then call .href on it.
But I have a suspicion that if you call
.href, maybe something fancy is happening.
If you set text content on a node,
that is a side effect, but
it doesn't look like it.
It looks like you're
just setting a property.
Sometimes you have to kind of know
if it's a side effect or not.
Yeah, so let's just go ahead and
start right here.
What we're gonna do, so this is fun.
It has me wrap this thing in a task.
And if I do task,
the new task on this one,
apologies, regress, and
we just resolve this,
and it passes, and things are good.
I wonder if I take away the new,
if it still works?
It's not happy.
What are you doing wrong?
Get href?
Look, check this out,
as well I was gonna show you.
To get href,
it could be a function, right?
And then all of a sudden, it works,
or it could just be a value.
I mean, this thing hasn't run.
Same exact results, right?
It has the function in the task.
So you're saving yourself
an object instance, in this case.
But perhaps maybe if this was
an already resolved task,
then it would just continue
to give you the same value.
Maybe you want a new one,
so you can do that.
I typically do this not to be on
the safe side, to be honest, but
that's kind of interesting.
The other interesting thing here is we're
about to talk about, if I wanted to do
like a try catch in here, and
if this blew up, call the reject.
And I could do that manually, or
I could use either as try catch.
But what I'd end up with is a task
with an either with whatever,
like null, or the actual value.
And the task has the rejections side, and
we actually don't call that.
This would just be basically null,
cuz this never gets called,
because the try catch would be
inside the thing over here.
These kind of nested effects is what
we're gonna talk about a little bit,
and then we'll build an app to
just kind of use this stuff.
As promised,
I wanted to quickly touch on that of
method before we go into nested effects.
So if I have a task of 2,
that just puts 2 in there, right?
And I can fork from there,
I can map from here, right?
I've got 2, and
I can start doing 2 times 2, so on.
And we'll fork that console.log,
blah, blah, blah.
Great, so that's cool.
I can just pop a value in there.
I don't have to use its specific
constructor to get it to do that.
It ignores the error side,
and just starts with success,
cuz I'm just putting a value in there, and
we're just gonna start mapping over it.
If I started with reject, none of this
would happen, and it would be weird.
So for our intuition,
of should pick the successful side.
And we kinda define this loosely,
as the default minimal context.
ID is just box, ID should have an of,
and it doesn't have.
It's not forked, okay, yeah.
And extracts here.
Yeah, it's not fold here,
sorry about that.
Either has that, right?
We can fold it down into console.log.
Console.log, should have done
this one first, and so on.
So of in JavaScript is a interface
to program to,
in order to get your value inside a type.
In fact, if we call list.of, fold on this,
I love this [LAUGH] with a toJS.
So I'm bringing in a mutable JS as of now.
And I'm bringing my extended form
to kinda show some extra things.
We're not gonna do exercises,
I just want you to be aware of some of
these extra APIs that
you might need to know.
You can do 99% of everything with
what you know, as of right now.
But you're gonna run into some cases.
And these cases typically are centered
around nested, different types.
So I wanna talk about them for a second,
and then we'll build some stuff.
But is everybody good with of?
Just pop it into type,
don't worry about its constructor,
and it's an interface to program to,
we call that appointed functor, a functor,
the way to put a point in there.
And then a monad,
just to just to finish up here
is is if I chain things,
I have to put this back in a list, right?
Because I'm chaining.
So we define a monad as a pointed
functor with the chain.
So a monad is not just chain, it also has
this method, because we're dropping out
of the type, and we need a way
to put something back in a type.
If we don't have that in a nice
clean interface like of,
it breaks the whole interface.
So those are the last
kind of things there.
I honestly probably won't be using of
all that much, but it's good to know.